---
disableToc: true
---

<div> 
    <h1> </i> Spot related blog posts, tutorials & videos</i></h1>
</div>

## General guidance and Web applications running on EC2

##### New Amazon EC2 Spot pricing model: Simplified purchasing without bidding and fewer interruptions
https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/compute/new-amazon-ec2-spot-pricing/

##### Running high-scale web applications on Amazon EC2 Spot Instances
https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/compute/running-high-scale-web-on-spot-instances/

##### New – EC2 Auto Scaling Groups With Multiple Instance Types & Purchase Options
https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/aws/new-ec2-auto-scaling-groups-with-multiple-instance-types-purchase-options/

##### Capacity-Optimized Spot Instance Allocation in Action at Mobileye and Skyscanner
https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/aws/capacity-optimized-spot-instance-allocation-in-action-at-mobileye-and-skyscanner/

##### AWS Online Tech Talks: Optimize AI/ML, Kubernetes and Big Data Workloads at Your Startup
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2donGftFSIY

##### AWS Online Tech Talks: How to Build Scalable Web Based Applications for Less with Amazon EC2 Spot Instances
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9psCsCcbfFM

## Big-data and analytics

##### Best practices for running Apache Spark applications using Amazon EC2 Spot Instances with Amazon EMR
https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/big-data/best-practices-for-running-apache-spark-applications-using-amazon-ec2-spot-instances-with-amazon-emr/

##### Getting started tutorial: Optimizing Amazon EMR clusters for cost and scale with EC2 Spot Instances and Amazon EMR
https://aws.amazon.com/getting-started/hands-on/optimize-amazon-emr-clusters-with-ec2-spot/

##### AWS re:Invent 2019: Run big data workloads faster and cheaper (20 minute demo - EMR Instance Fleets)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WbrGF56oeCY

## Containers

##### Getting started tutorial: Run Kubernetes clusters for less with Amazon EKS and Spot Instances
https://aws.amazon.com/getting-started/hands-on/amazon-eks-with-spot-instances/

##### AWS Online Tech Talks: Save Costs Running Kubernetes Clusters with EC2 Spot Instances
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F60emoW3sfs

##### Deep dive into Fargate Spot to run your ECS Tasks for up to 70% less
https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/compute/deep-dive-into-fargate-spot-to-run-your-ecs-tasks-for-up-to-70-less/

## AI/ML

##### Getting started tutorial: Optimizing and Scaling Machine Learning Training with Managed Spot Training for Amazon SageMaker
https://aws.amazon.com/getting-started/hands-on/managed-spot-training-sagemaker/

##### Train Deep Learning Models on GPUs using Amazon EC2 Spot Instances
https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/machine-learning/train-deep-learning-models-on-gpus-using-amazon-ec2-spot-instances/

##### Reduce Inferencing Cost by Up to 90% Using Amazon Elastic Inference and Amazon EC2 Spot Instances
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9RkTLNtaMP4

## HPC & Batch workloads

##### Western Digital HDD Simulation at Cloud Scale – 2.5 Million HPC Tasks, 40K EC2 Spot Instances
https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/aws/western-digital-hdd-simulation-at-cloud-scale-2-5-million-hpc-tasks-40k-ec2-spot-instances/

##### Running batch jobs at scale for less with AWS Batch and EC2 Spot Instances
https://aws.amazon.com/getting-started/hands-on/run-batch-jobs-at-scale-with-ec2-spot/ 

##### AWS Online Tech Talks: Optimize Batch Processing for Scale & Save Up to 90% on Compute Running AWS Batch on Spot Instances
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Wrg8XvU6qqI

## CI/CD

##### Cost Optimize your Jenkins CI/CD pipelines using EC2 Spot Instances
https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/compute/cost-optimize-your-jenkins-ci-cd-pipelines-using-ec2-spot-instances/
